# Meeting on 26th November 2021

- Time: 19:00 (Barcelona time)
- Attendees:

Abel Bernabeu (Esperanto Technologies, Chair)

Atif Zafar (Pixilica, Vice-chair)

Peter Lieber (Individual contributor)

Mehmet Oguz Derin (Individual contributor)

Mick Thomas Lim (Individual contributor)

- Recorded: yes, on the chair's computer

## Agenda

- Follow up on ongoing tasks (DONE)
- A preview of what we will present at the RISC-V Summit, under the "Beyond the RISC-V ISA" track (DONE)
- A technical discussion on mapping from vector elements to work-items (DONE)

## Announcement

I announce internally that the Graphics and the ML SIGs are merging. The decision is settled (the Software HC has enough capacity for deciding this and has done so). The logistics we will figure out, for example the ML mailing list may get redirected to sig-graphics if that is supported by groups.io. This change could be temporary until we split again when
enough critical mass is reached.

The change will affect our agendas, with the merged group prioritizing the tasks where there is "sinergy" between Graphics and ML.

## Follow up ongoing tasks

Atif confirms he is working on collecting the data he needs for doing a write up of the "Motivation" introductory section
in the gap analysis document.

## Slides for the RISC-V Summit

As promised, we go through the slides I have prepared for the RISC-V Summit. The content of the presentation is closely
related to the gap analysis document.

Constructive feedback is given.

Regarding atomics or memory ordering (barriers), Mehmet asks how compliant RVV is with SPIR-V's atomics. My answer is that since these details are not strictly needed for OpenGL ES 2.0 they are being overlooked for us to focus on other stuff.

Regarding the transcendental functions required for graphics (sin, cos, exp2
and log2), Mehmet asks what is the needed accuracy. I propose we stick to the accuracy achieved by the scalar
implementation, which should be more than enough for graphics. After the meeting I double check this suggestion of mine and I see no scalar implementation on RISC-V (sorry for this).

A good reference for the needed accuracy is the OpenCL spec (https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenCL/specs/2.2/pdf/OpenCL_Env.pdf):

- For sin and cos the error should be smaller or equal than 4 ULP.
- For exp2 and log2 it should be smaller or equal than 3 ULP.

Mehmet suggests that maybe supporting work-item scopes also affects masking, used for simulating branching, in the
sense that we no longer mask indiviual vector elements but work-items instead. That is correct.

## Discussion on supporing work-item scopes

Regarding the support for work-item scopes I propose people read the Zvediv extension that was dropped from RVV in the
last minute: https://github.com/riscv/riscv-v-spec/blob/master/ediv.adoc

Everyone gets yet additional homework: think about how would you add dimensionality to the vector operand within a work-item scope.
