# Meeting on 14th October 2021

- Time: 19:00 (Barcelona time)
- Attendees: 9
- Recorded: no

## Agenda

- Summary from previous session (DONE)
- Charter approval vote (MOVED TO OFFLINE)
- Simulator discussion (ONGOING)
- Compiler tech discussion (ONGOING)
- Docker image discussion (DONE)

## Summary

### Charter

The charter does not seem to receive any more feedback within the group, which I interpret as green light. After the meeting questions were emailed to Philipp Tomsich regarding the approval process within the Software HC.

### Simulator

During the meeting I propose to develop a simulator based on libmesa that could be the tool we need for verifying the specs and doing benchmarking. Key points:

- Building with offscreen rendering (as opposed to DRI)
- Using Gallium softpipe as starting point
- Shader executions being delegated on Spike.

Iakovos (Applied Materials), who has some experience on libmesa seemed to like the idea.

Atif reports that contacts with libmesa developers have started. Hopefully someone from mesa can join some of the next sessions.

Simon (Imperas), asks about how performance can be meassured without a specific micro-architecture definition. We discuss having a table with number of execution cycles per instruction. Most instructions will only take one cycle but a texture sampling can take more than 30. The actual number of cycles in that table would need to be defined using assumptions about the micro-architecture, but that could work for the purpose estimating the execution times.

### Compiler

Peter reports about two alternatives for building the shader compiler:

- Combining the official tools from Khronos and LLVM, fixing Khronos' translator from SPIR-V to LLVM for supporting GLSL.
- Starting from scratch.

Iakovos mentions that libmesa has its own frontend and intermediate representation and that can be yet another alternative.

The choice of combining the official tools from Khronos and LLVM is what the implementors of RISC-V graphics would demand, and that is the reason why we decide to focus on that alternative.

### Docker image

No commitments were made about who would like to work on docker (kind of expected). My guess is that the docker image will be kind of a collaborative effort.

I offered to donate my own docker image.

Peter suggests to look at some pre-existing docker which has at least one of the needed components supported (like LLVM), and use it as a starting point rather than building from scratch. I agree that could be a good thing.

The question is still open, but we created awarness that the development environment needs to be dockerized, rather than just documented.

### Priorities

Am concerned that we get distracted from writing a the gap analysis document by looking at software tools.

Mark Himelstein (RISC-V's CTO) clarifies details about the gap analysis document:

- It is a plan and not a report, because it gets executed.
- The document format is a written text with sections, rather than a presentation.
- It contains effort estimations expressed in t-shirt sizes.

After the meeting Mark created a "graphics" workspace on the RISC-V Google Drive for this and other documents.
