# Meeting on 30nd September 2021

- Time: 19:00 (Barcelona time)
- Attendees: 7
- Recorded: yes, on the chair’s computer

## Agenda

- Reminders (DONE)
- Is Skia alive and interesting? (NOT STARTED)
- Gap analysis tasks (ONGOING)
- Challenges beyond the RISC-V scope (DONE)


## Summary

### Gap analysis

The gap between RISC-V V and SPIR-V is summarized (slide 8).

Now, is it worth adding everything that is missing?

Some areas like texturing can be justified with a bit of common sense, but for evaluating other potential additions a proper quantitative approach is needed.

We discuss that in order to provide that quantitative approach for guiding the extension work we need tools. Those tools do not exist and need to be developed:

1) A simulator based on RVV.
2) A compiler for translating shaders into a (potentially extended) RVV ISA.

With those two tools we could run benchmarks, but without them we can not provide any numbers.

Some of the work developing those tools can be shared with Khronos, hopefully.

### Tasks for attendees

Mark Himelstein (RISC-V's CTO):
- Do introductions with Khronos for starting a discussion on how to share tooling efforts.

Atif Zafar (vice-chair):
- Contact some of the Mesa developers through some of Atif's referrals network for asking for advice about backend development.

Abel Bernabeu (chair):
- Look at Mesa software backends to evaluate how suitable it is to use them as foundation for our simulator.

Peter Lieber (compiler engineer):
- Research the landscape of shader compilers we can reuse.
