# Meeting on 16nd September 2021

- Time: 19:00 (Barcelona time)
- Attendees: 7
- Recorded: yes, on the chair’s computer

## Agenda

- Avoiding the “unified” concept (DONE)
- New preliminary charter discussion (DONE)
- Vision (DONE)
- A plan for catching up with the industry (DONE)
- Gap analysis tasks (ONGOING)
- Is Skia alive and interesting? (NOT STARTED)


## Summary

### More introductions

New faces:
- Mick Thomas Lim: employed by Intel but attending as individual contributor.
- Peter Lieber: employed by Broadcom but also attending as individual contributor.
- Drew Fustini: Linux kernel developer.

### The word "unified" gets forbidden

There is no need for our discussions to be centered on a specific kind of implementation like a unified shading architecture.

That concept is not only not needed but:
- It has legal implications that the chair refuses to discuss (in line with the RISC-V policy that patenting related matters are not discussed on the RISC-V venues).
- Iakovos mentions there is also a good reason for not centering the discussion on unified shading architectures. That reason is to allow innovation by not being too prescriptive.


### The charter tweaks

- There was an explicit mention of open source, when we are open to software with any license that makes sense for our members.
- There was a mention of the Graphics SIG representing RISC-V International towards external organizations, but that is possibly not something we should aim at. Representing the RISC-V community is one thing, but we can not represent the RISC-V International legal entity.

Both issues were corrected and fixed in GitHub.

### Vision

We go through a revisited version of the "vision" slides from previous meeting without a mention of the "unified" word.

The suggested roadmap has three stages:

- Single core: defining enough instructions for implementing graphics on a microcontroller, supporting only vertex and fragment shaders.
- Basic multicore: support for more than one core (shader scheduling).
- Complete multicore: more than one core and addition of all the missing shading stages (tessellation, geometry shaders and so on).

### Tasks for attendees

Abel (chair):
- Setup voting for our charter a Google form.
- Setup another form for collecting what are our areas of interest (for example 2D graphics with Skia seem to be something mentioned on the mailing list).
- Ask Mark Himelstein (RISC-V's CTO) whether an FPGA implementation of an extension is enough or actual silicon is required.
